90% of the framework was generated by a neural network with minimal engineer involvement

Obviously we use Cursor and Claude Code for faster implementation but we know what and where we are implementing and 90% is a bit exaggerated but 40%-50% is the right number
 For Bloomex Australia we implemented in 4-days ( 198 Test-cases) and when you count browser its about 900+ Test cases
For Bloomex Canada  we implemented 250 Testcases (Web + Mobile) for English and same for French and  when you can browsers and mobile view its 1800+ Cases

Time required to run all tests exceeds 8 hours with no guarantee of successful report generation; the smoke suite alone takes over 5 hours (!!!)

 Its not the test execution that's is taking its the amount of testcases, Reduce the number of test cases and it will be faster
You can share with us if you notice that the code execution is slow

No mechanisms for session reuse or caching, leading to memory leaks and extremely high system resource consumption

We are not using a custom library, we are using the playwright library and following all the best practices that are shared by https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices
We are already using fixtures for memory management which is in the best practice
The execution depends on the systems cores, we all are using macs with 10 cores and we are easily able to execute 4 workers and still work parallel.

Video recording and full-screen screenshots are taken regardless of test outcome, resulting in reports measured in gigabytes

 There is a very simple configuration available in playwright.config.ts file to turn on and off the videos, screenshots and tracers.
 Here is the documentation provided by the playwright itself: https://playwright.dev/docs/videos

Widespread use of explicit waits with huge timeouts means even a simple page title check takes over 5 minutes

There are no or few explicit waits the application is extremely slow and most of the test-cases fail because we have put project wide timeout for each test case of  90 sec but because we have increased it to let the test-cases execute. It can be changed to 30 sec or whatever time you want.

Almost complete lack of code comments makes maintenance and potential refactoring unjustifiably labor-intensive

Every function is wrapped inside test.step which is playwright best practice https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-teststep
Every test.step has proper comment in it which tells what this function does and every function has proper name
Every locator has proper name 

Use of XPath locators leads to low resilience against changes in DOM structure
No the Automation issue but the app is not designed from the automation perspective.
Playwright has its own tool that picks the locator and its always convenient for us but because the app doesn't have ids, data-test-ids that's why we have to go with alternative route. Building xpaths takes time as compared to other attributes.

Functional checks are mixed with UI/rendering checks, causing confusion and overall reduced stability

We have implemented all the functionality and UI checks that we can implement within the short time of duration and as per discussion with Rubel this was supposed to quick win and first iteration then it is supposed to be refined and filtered.

No test tagging/marking, making it impossible to create custom test suites for different end-to-end scenarios
This framework has the best capability to implement tags, in the data file you can add tag for.
Check this screenshot: https://prnt.sc/JMYIvspMh23u  tags are already added for each functionality and you can add tag and run the testcases
Playwright documentation for how to run Test cases for particular file, tag, or find a testcase with matching string and run it : https://playwright.dev/docs/test-cli

No checks for corner/edge cases
This Automation is quick win and we tried to cover as much positive and negative, for more cases as discussed with Rubel this will be refined, test cases will be reduced and more edge cases will be automated.

No retry mechanisms, so a single failed test forces a full rerun of the entire test suite
The retry mechanism that is available by playwright is already implemented. You just need to update the value: https://prnt.sc/5ak7U0LbePsn
Playwright documentation: https://playwright.dev/docs/test-retries 

Convenient test data management is also absent
There is proper Test-data management implemented and I can show you how it is working. You might be expecting JSON or EXCEL or SQL DB that's all possible but Typescript DATA MANAGEMENT is already implemented and this gives flexibility to mutate the data in case we need it since its TS file. Check Screenshot: https://prnt.sc/wrkvnY6hG-Vj

Project structure is overly complicated:
I agree and dont. We all find it easy since we all worked on it but might needs a bit more effort for early adopters. 
There is proper README file that explains.
There is proper flow and folders like Data, Fixtures, Pages and Specs

In its current state, the framework is practically unusable — even manual regression testing would be faster and more effective. The representativeness (coverage and relevance) of the tests is also highly questionable. 
[This question is itself generated through CHATGPT but I will answer]

If the Test cases are properly and timely maintained then it will be effective
The app is continuously changing but the scripts are not and also
So as per the hypothesis above 1800 test-cases which takes 8 hrs through automation can be executed by Manual QA Engineer on all Web-Browsers and Mobile-Browsers faster then this. I would highly doubt this claim

The effort required for a deep refactoring and bringing the framework into a workable condition is comparable to designing and implementing a completely new one from scratch, while adhering to high code quality standards, proper documentation, and modern best practices.

I respect your thoughts but that is not the case you gave a URL and ask to automate as many cases happy paths we can in 4-5 days and then expect it to 100% accurate that is the wrong expectation.
I have answered many questions above and I can see the evaluator lacks experience with Modern Automation frameworks.
To make the situation better it should be collaborative approach. Provide the test case so we know what exactly you are expecting and we can bring it to automation
